# Extensions meeting at Docker HQ

Present: Luke, Kai (ClusterHQ), Michael Bridgen (Weave), Madhu (Socketplane).

# Launching adapters

## Configuration

Currently "installing" an adapter involves manually editing a yaml file.
This is not a good user experience.

In particular, adapter authors need to specify which endpoints they're interested in both in their adapter itself and then also the `adapters.yml` file.

Instead, we could define a "handshake" protocol that adapters speak when they are first loaded to specify which endpoints are interesting.

We should aim to eliminate the `adapters.yml` this way.

## Packaging adapters for installation

We propose that adapters *are* docker containers themselves.
So a user experience could look like this:

```
$ docker plugins load clusterhq/flocker
```

This would pull the `clusterhq/flocker` image from the Docker registry.

However, it seems desirable that an adapter should be able to launch more than one container.
Docker compose seems like the appropriate mechanism to use for this.
But we should not force this on adapter authors.

Therefore we could define an optional but standard "adapter loader" image which contains and uses Docker compose to describe a set of containers.

For example, a socketplane adapter could use:

`Dockerfile`:

```
FROM clusterhq/adapter-loader
ADD docker-compose.yml
```

`docker-compose.yml`:
```
socketplane:
 image: socketplane/socketplane
 command: "socketplane"
 net: "host"
 cap_add:
   - NET_ADMIN
ovs:
 image: socketplane/docker-ovs:2.3.0
 command: "/usr/bin/supervisord -n"
 net: "host"
 cap_add:
   - NET_ADMIN
```

Then the loader container would have the Docker socket bind-mounted and could then launch a set of containers just by running `compose up` when it starts.

## Per host configuration

It's just a list of docker images that consititute loading adapters.
This could be an environment variable passed to the powerstrip adapter:

```
POWERSTRIP_ADAPTERS="clusterhq/powerstrip-flocker weave/powerstrip-weave"
```

Environment variables are worrying though, because they aren't mutable.
We want to be able to dynamically load and unload plugins.
But we also want to be able to put some command into a cloud-init to set up a set of adapters at boot.

## Prototyping `docker plugins load`

We can prototype `docker plugins load` as `powerstrip load`.

# Host discovery

Useful to adapters to have a consistent view of group membership in a cluster.

This is important but somewhat orthogonal to the extensions mechanism, so let's focus on that first.
